BFF v3 -> v4 guide (#751)
DuendeSoftware/docs.duendesoftware.com: src/content/docs/bff/upgrading/bff-v3-to-v4.md

---
title: "Duende BFF Security Framework v3.0 to v4.0"
description: Guide for upgrading Duende BFF Security Framework from version 3.x to version 4.0, including migration steps for custom implementations and breaking changes.
sidebar:
  label: v3.0 → v4.0
  order: 20
---

Duende BFF Security Framework v4.0 is a significant release that includes:

* Multi-frontend support
* OpenTelemetry support
* Support for login prompts
* Several fixes and improvements

> The extensibility approach has been drastically changed, and many `virtual` methods containing implementation logiv are now internal.

Reviewer: typo and slight wording diff:

```suggestion
The extensibility approach has been drastically changed, and many `virtual` methods containing implementation logic are now internal instead.
```

:::caution[Duende BFF Security Framework v4 is still in preview]
The Duende BFF Security Framework v4 is still in preview (currently [preview 1](https://github.com/DuendeSoftware/products/releases/edit/bff-4.0.0-Preview1)).
This version (and associated documentation) is still evolving.
:::

## Upgrading

This release introduces many breaking changes. This upgrade guide covers cases where a breaking change was introduced.

### Remote APIs

The syntax for configuring remote APIs has changed slightly:

```diff lang="csharp" title="Program.cs"
// Use a client credentials token
app.MapRemoteBffApiEndpoint("/api/client-token", "https://localhost:5010")
-    .RequireAccessToken(TokenType.Client);
+    .WithAccessToken(RequiredTokenType.Client);      

// Use the client token only if the user is logged in
app.MapRemoteBffApiEndpoint("/api/optional-user-token", "https://localhost:5010")
-    .WithOptionalUserAccessToken();
+    .WithAccessToken(RequiredTokenType.UserOrNone);            
```

* The enum `TokenType` has been renamed to `RequiredTokenType`.

> * The method to require the token type is renamed to `WithAccessToken()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The methods to configure the token type have all been replaced with a new method `WithAccessToken()`
```

> * Requesting an optional access token should not be done with the method `WithOptionalUserAccessToken()` but with `RequiredTokenType.UserOrNone`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Requesting an optional access token should no longer be done by calling `WithOptionalUserAccessToken()`. Use `WithAccessToken(RequiredTokenType.UserOrNone)` instead.
```

### Configuring Token Types In YARP

> The required token type configuration in yarp has also changed slightly. It uses the enum values from `RequiredTokenType`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The required token type configuration in YARP has also changed slightly. It uses the enum values from `RequiredTokenType`.
```

```csharp
.AddFrontends(
    new BffFrontend(BffFrontendName.Parse("default-frontend"))
        .WithIndexHtmlUrl(new Uri("https://localhost:5005/static/index.html")),

    new BffFrontend(BffFrontendName.Parse("with-path"))
        .WithOpenIdConnectOptions(opt =>
        {
            opt.ClientId = "bff.multi-frontend.with-path";
            opt.ClientSecret = "secret";
        })
        .WithIndexHtmlUrl(new Uri("https://localhost:5005/static/index.html"))
        .MappedToPath(LocalPath.Parse("/with-path")),

    new BffFrontend(BffFrontendName.Parse("with-domain"))
        .WithOpenIdConnectOptions(opt =>
        {
            opt.ClientId = "bff.multi-frontend.with-domain";
            opt.ClientSecret = "secret";
        })
        .WithIndexHtmlUrl(new Uri("https://localhost:5005/static/index.html"))
        .MappedToOrigin(Origin.Parse("https://app1.localhost:5005"))
        .WithRemoteApis(
            new RemoteApi(LocalPath.Parse("/api/user-token"), new Uri("https://localhost:5010")),
            new RemoteApi(LocalPath.Parse("/api/client-token"), new Uri("https://localhost:5010"))
)
```

#### Loading Configuration From `IConfiguration`

> Loading configuration, including openid connect configuration from an `IConfiguration` is now supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loading configuration, including OpenID Connect configuration from `IConfiguration` is now supported:
```

```csharp
services.AddBff().LoadConfiguration(bffConfig);
```

> Using this, you can configure your openid connect options, including secrets and configure the list of frontends. This also adds a file watcher, to automatically add / remove frontends from the config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables you to configure your OpenID Connect options, including secrets, and configure the list of frontends. This also adds a file watcher, to automatically add / remove frontends from the config file.
```

See the type `BffConfiguration` to see what settings can be configured.

#### Index HTML Retrieval

It's fairly common to deploy your application in such a way to have the BFF be the first entrypoint for your application. It should serve an index.html that will bootstrap your frontend. However, your static content should be loaded from a CDN.

If you publish your frontend code to a cdn with absolute paths (for example by specifying a base path in your vite config), then all static content is loaded directly from the CDN.

> You can configure the location of your Index HTML by specifying:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the location of your index.html by specifying:
```
